[charts] Allow the creation of custom HTML components using charts data (#15511)
mui/mui-x: docs/data/charts/composition/composition.md

## Overview

The `@mui/x-charts` follows an architecture based on context providers.
The overall idea is to pass your series and axes definitions to special components.
This component transforms the data and makes it available to its children, which can be composed.

There are two main classes of components, which are used to create a chart.

> ### 1. Structural components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Structural components
```

Otherwise it looks weir in the menu

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/adbe3f00-73e3-448d-ac19-0261d4623e8b)

These are used to define the chart's structure and data.

:::info
Most of the demos here will be using the `ChartContainer` component.
To see demos using the separate `ChartDataProvider` and `ChartsSurface` components, check the [HTML components documentation](/x/react-charts/components/#html-components).

> :::

Reviewer: IMHO this warning would be better placed at the end of the section to introduce the components before having the warning

Author: Check if I moved it to the correct place 😅

> #### The `ChartDataProvider` and `ChartsSurface` components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### The Data Provider and Surface components
```

https://www.notion.so/mui-org/Style-conventions-for-MUI-components-and-products-dff7d2d7d1ba4a4abd47f48cf345b800

As the name suggests, the `ChartDataProvider` provides the data to the children components.
While the `ChartsSurface` renders the SVG elements.

```jsx
<ChartDataProvider>
  <ChartsSurface>{children}</ChartsSurface>
</ChartDataProvider>

> ```

Reviewer: That's the obvious part, but the more interesting aspect is  "to which one should I pass the series, the axes, the width, height"

#### The `ChartContainer` helper

This component is a composition of the two previous components.
It can be used instead of them when there is no need to customize anything outside the chart's graphical elements.

```jsx
<ChartContainer>{children}</ChartContainer>
```

> ### 2. Graphical components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Graphical components
```

> These are any component that render the graphical elements of the chart. They are the children of the **Structural components** shown above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are any component that render the graphical elements of the chart.
They are the children of the **Structural components** shown above.
```

  xAxis={[{ scaleType: 'band', data: ['A', 'B'] }]}
  width={500}
  height={300}
>
  <ChartsSurface
    // Ref needs to be directly on the ChartsSurface
    ref={mySvgRef}
  >
    {children}
  </ChartsSurface>
</ChartDataProvider>
```

:::info
The demos here are using the `ChartContainer` component.
To see demos using the separate `ChartDataProvider` and `ChartsSurface` components, check the [HTML components documentation](/x/react-charts/components/#html-components).
:::

#### The `ChartContainer` helper

This component is a composition of the two previous components.
It can be used instead of them when there is no need to customize anything outside the chart's graphical elements.

```jsx
<ChartContainer
  // The configuration of the chart
  series={[{ type: 'bar', data: [100, 200] }]}
  xAxis={[{ scaleType: 'band', data: ['A', 'B'] }]}
  width={500}
  height={300}
  // Ref is forwarded internally to the ChartsSurface
  ref={mySvgRef}
>
  {children}
</ChartContainer>
```

### Graphical components

These are any component that render the graphical elements of the chart.
They are the children of the **Structural components** shown above.

> There are many of them, so we will not list them all here. You can even [create your own components](/x/react-charts/components/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many of them, so we will not list them all here.
You can even [create your own components](/x/react-charts/components/).
```

> There are many of them, so we will not list them all here. You can even [create your own components](/x/react-charts/components/).

Author: ```suggestion
There are many of them, so they wont all be listed here. You can even [create your own components](/x/react-charts/components/).
```

  xAxis={[{ scaleType: 'band', data: ['A', 'B'] }]}
  width={500}
  height={300}
>
  <ChartsSurface
    // Ref needs to be directly on the ChartsSurface
    ref={mySvgRef}
  >
    {children}
  </ChartsSurface>
</ChartDataProvider>
```

:::info
The demos here are using the `ChartContainer` component.
To see demos using the separate `ChartDataProvider` and `ChartsSurface` components, check the [HTML components documentation](/x/react-charts/components/#html-components).
:::

#### The `ChartContainer` helper

This component is a composition of the two previous components.
It can be used instead of them when there is no need to customize anything outside the chart's graphical elements.

```jsx
<ChartContainer
  // The configuration of the chart
  series={[{ type: 'bar', data: [100, 200] }]}
  xAxis={[{ scaleType: 'band', data: ['A', 'B'] }]}
  width={500}
  height={300}
  // Ref is forwarded internally to the ChartsSurface
  ref={mySvgRef}
>
  {children}
</ChartContainer>
```

### Graphical components

These are any component that render the graphical elements of the chart.
They are the children of the **Structural components** shown above.

> There are many of them, so we will not list them all here.

Author: ```suggestion
There are many of them, so they won't all be listed here.
```
